So now we know how to create a sign up form and save the users data on our database.
We need to have a way of actually keeping them signed into our Web site so that we know who they are
and can show them the right information.
And one way to do that is with session variables.
So I'm actually going to do that on a new ph file for reasons that I'll show you later on.
So let's create a file called session ph.
And then I'll use command control on windows to open it in my text Tota
and then we'll just change the R L here to S. dot ph P and I'll do a quick test to make sure everything
is connected up there again.
So to use session variables
we first have to start our session and we do that using session underscore.
Start simple enough and then to use the session variables.
We do it in exactly the same way as with get and post.
So if I wanted to set up
session user name for example I might do something like that and then set it equal to Percival.
So now I've created a session variable.
So what's special about that.
Well the great thing about it is that this session variable will remain live while the user is browsing
our Web site as long as they don't shut down their browser.
So what I mean by that is if I carry the session variable
username then obviously first time I do it it comes up with raw Percival that we get.
But the great thing is if I now take out that line and run the code again it still knows what that username
variable is.
So this is a great way of keeping a user essentially logged in because at the beginning of each of your
scripts you can check to see if there's a session variable for user name.
And if it is then show the user name they logged in page.
If not then you'll probably show them a log in or sign up page.
One quick thing to note is that you can use session variables on different pages of your website but
you need to have sessions start at the beginning of each page.
If you load a page on your site without a session start then that will lose the session.
It's also a good idea to avoid putting any HVM l code before you start your session because that can
break your session as well.
All right.
So let's close that down for a moment and let's
go back to our index top page file.
Over here.
And let's start our session here as well and then let's just make sure that we can access that use a
name variable and there you go.
You can see that we can.
So that's a completely different script on our server.
But we've still got the session variable.
All right.
So that's great to give you a bit more of an idea about how we might use this in practice.
I'm going to change our script so that's when the user is signed up.
It doesn't just sign them up but it adds their email address as a session variable and then read directs
them to a second page which then we show them some information about their new account so we can do
that pretty easily.
We'll just set session email equal to the email address that I signed up with and then we'll do the
redirect which we do by setting a header and that header is a new location and the location is the location
of the script that we want to send them.
I'm going to send them to my session doc ph P
file.
So we'll just call it Session top HP.
So now this will add them into the database and then adds the email to a session variable and then we
direct them to our new logged in page.
So now this is the challenge for you when that editing session appears to be what I want you to do is
check to see if there is a session email variable and if there is show them a bit of text like you are
logged in and if not redirect them back to the initial logon page.
So if they are logged in.
Show them any kind of log in text and if they're not.
Redirect them back to the page with the log in form go for it.
All right.
Have you managed it.
That was quite a tricky one.
We could do something like If
session e-mail exists then you are logged in.
And it was like what we would actually do in reality is show them the home page for our app or whatever
it was and if not.
So if they're trying to go to the log in page but they're not logged in then we're going to redirect
them using header and then location and we want to send them back to index top HP.
All right.
So got two scripts working together that let's see if we can make them work.
I do still have my session user name that I'm just going to get rid of that to avoid any confusion that
we get.
So let's sign up with a new e-mail address is Roback me dot com.
Put in a random password and then click sign up.
So now there we go saying you are logged in.
And that's actually on a completely new page on our site.
So what we've done there is pretty powerful.
We've said that as long as the user doesn't close their browser down they can navigate from one page
to another on our site and our site will know who they are and that they are locked in.
So we've essentially got a log in system up and running.
So that's pretty good.
But what if you want your user sessions to be a bit more persistent you want them to continue even if
the user shuts down their browser and comes back a few days later.
Well for that we use cookies and I'll show you how they work in the next video.